README.md, before:

[//]: # (Image References)

[image1]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10624937/43851024-320ba930-9aff-11e8-8493-ee547c6af349.gif "Trained Agent"
[image2]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10624937/43851646-d899bf20-9b00-11e8-858c-29b5c2c94ccc.png "Crawler"


# Project 2: Continuous Control

### Introduction

For this project, you will work with the [Reacher](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/master/docs/Learning-Environment-Examples.md#reacher) environment.

![Trained Agent][image1]

In this environment, a double-jointed arm can move to target locations. A reward of +0.1 is provided for each step that the agent's hand is in the goal location. Thus, the goal of your agent is to maintain its position at the target location for as many time steps as possible.

The observation space consists of 33 variables corresponding to position, rotation, velocity, and angular velocities of the arm. Each action is a vector with four numbers, corresponding to torque applicable to two joints. Every entry in the action vector should be a number between -1 and 1.

### Distributed Training

For this project, we will provide you with two separate versions of the Unity environment:
- The first version contains a single agent.
- The second version contains 20 identical agents, each with its own copy of the environment.  

The second version is useful for algorithms like [PPO](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.06347.pdf), [A3C](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1602.01783.pdf), and [D4PG](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=SyZipzbCb) that use multiple (non-interacting, parallel) copies of the same agent to distribute the task of gathering experience.  

### Solving the Environment

Note that your project submission need only solve one of the two versions of the environment. 

#### Option 1: Solve the First Version

The task is episodic, and in order to solve the environment,  your agent must get an average score of +30 over 100 consecutive episodes.

#### Option 2: Solve the Second Version

The barrier for solving the second version of the environment is slightly different, to take into account the presence of many agents.  In particular, your agents must get an average score of +30 (over 100 consecutive episodes, and over all agents).  Specifically,
- After each episode, we add up the rewards that each agent received (without discounting), to get a score for each agent.  This yields 20 (potentially different) scores.  We then take the average of these 20 scores. 
- This yields an **average score** for each episode (where the average is over all 20 agents).

The environment is considered solved, when the average (over 100 episodes) of those average scores is at least +30. 

### Getting Started

1. Download the environment from one of the links below.  You need only select the environment that matches your operating system:

    - **_Version 1: One (1) Agent_**
        - Linux: [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/one_agent/Reacher_Linux.zip)
        - Mac OSX: [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/one_agent/Reacher.app.zip)
        - Windows (32-bit): [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/one_agent/Reacher_Windows_x86.zip)
        - Windows (64-bit): [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/one_agent/Reacher_Windows_x86_64.zip)

    - **_Version 2: Twenty (20) Agents_**
        - Linux: [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/Reacher_Linux.zip)
        - Mac OSX: [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/Reacher.app.zip)
        - Windows (32-bit): [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/Reacher_Windows_x86.zip)
        - Windows (64-bit): [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/Reacher_Windows_x86_64.zip)
    
    (_For Windows users_) Check out [this link](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/827218/how-to-determine-whether-a-computer-is-running-a-32-bit-version-or-64) if you need help with determining if your computer is running a 32-bit version or 64-bit version of the Windows operating system.

    (_For AWS_) If you'd like to train the agent on AWS (and have not [enabled a virtual screen](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/master/docs/Training-on-Amazon-Web-Service.md)), then please use [this link](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/one_agent/Reacher_Linux_NoVis.zip) (version 1) or [this link](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/Reacher_Linux_NoVis.zip) (version 2) to obtain the "headless" version of the environment.  You will **not** be able to watch the agent without enabling a virtual screen, but you will be able to train the agent.  (_To watch the agent, you should follow the instructions to [enable a virtual screen](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/master/docs/Training-on-Amazon-Web-Service.md), and then download the environment for the **Linux** operating system above._)

2. Place the file in the DRLND GitHub repository, in the `p2_continuous-control/` folder, and unzip (or decompress) the file. 

### Instructions

Follow the instructions in `Continuous_Control.ipynb` to get started with training your own agent!  

### (Optional) Challenge: Crawler Environment

After you have successfully completed the project, you might like to solve the more difficult **Crawler** environment.

![Crawler][image2]

In this continuous control environment, the goal is to teach a creature with four legs to walk forward without falling.  

You can read more about this environment in the ML-Agents GitHub [here](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/master/docs/Learning-Environment-Examples.md#crawler).  To solve this harder task, you'll need to download a new Unity environment.  (**Note**: Udacity students should not submit a project with this new environment.)

You need only select the environment that matches your operating system:
- Linux: [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Crawler/Crawler_Linux.zip)
- Mac OSX: [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Crawler/Crawler.app.zip)
- Windows (32-bit): [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Crawler/Crawler_Windows_x86.zip)
- Windows (64-bit): [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Crawler/Crawler_Windows_x86_64.zip)

Then, place the file in the `p2_continuous-control/` folder in the DRLND GitHub repository, and unzip (or decompress) the file.  Next, open `Crawler.ipynb` and follow the instructions to learn how to use the Python API to control the agent.

(_For AWS_) If you'd like to train the agent on AWS (and have not [enabled a virtual screen](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/master/docs/Training-on-Amazon-Web-Service.md)), then please use [this link](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Crawler/Crawler_Linux_NoVis.zip) to obtain the "headless" version of the environment.  You will **not** be able to watch the agent without enabling a virtual screen, but you will be able to train the agent.  (_To watch the agent, you should follow the instructions to [enable a virtual screen](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/master/docs/Training-on-Amazon-Web-Service.md), and then download the environment for the **Linux** operating system above._)

Commit message:

Submission for Udacity Nanodegree implementing Proximal Policy Optimization to solve Reacher environment

README.md, after:

[//]: # (Image References)

[image1]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10624937/43851024-320ba930-9aff-11e8-8493-ee547c6af349.gif "Trained Agent"
[image2]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10624937/43851646-d899bf20-9b00-11e8-858c-29b5c2c94ccc.png "Crawler"


# Project 2: Continuous Control

### Introduction

For this project, you will work with the [Reacher](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/master/docs/Learning-Environment-Examples.md#reacher) environment.

![Trained Agent][image1]

In this environment, a double-jointed arm can move to target locations. A reward of +0.1 is provided for each step that the agent's hand is in the goal location. Thus, the goal of your agent is to maintain its position at the target location for as many time steps as possible.

The observation space consists of 33 variables corresponding to position, rotation, velocity, and angular velocities of the arm. Each action is a vector with four numbers, corresponding to torque applicable to two joints. Every entry in the action vector should be a number between -1 and 1.

### Distributed Training

For this project, we will provide you with two separate versions of the Unity environment:
- The first version contains a single agent.
- The second version contains 20 identical agents, each with its own copy of the environment.  

The second version is useful for algorithms like [PPO](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.06347.pdf), [A3C](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1602.01783.pdf), and [D4PG](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=SyZipzbCb) that use multiple (non-interacting, parallel) copies of the same agent to distribute the task of gathering experience.  

### Solving the Environment

Note that your project submission need only solve one of the two versions of the environment. 

#### Option 1: Solve the First Version

The task is episodic, and in order to solve the environment,  your agent must get an average score of +30 over 100 consecutive episodes.

#### Option 2: Solve the Second Version

The barrier for solving the second version of the environment is slightly different, to take into account the presence of many agents.  In particular, your agents must get an average score of +30 (over 100 consecutive episodes, and over all agents).  Specifically,
- After each episode, we add up the rewards that each agent received (without discounting), to get a score for each agent.  This yields 20 (potentially different) scores.  We then take the average of these 20 scores. 
- This yields an **average score** for each episode (where the average is over all 20 agents).

The environment is considered solved, when the average (over 100 episodes) of those average scores is at least +30. 

### Getting Started

1. Download the environment from one of the links below.  You need only select the environment that matches your operating system:

    - **_Version 1: One (1) Agent_**
        - Linux: [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/one_agent/Reacher_Linux.zip)
        - Mac OSX: [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/one_agent/Reacher.app.zip)
        - Windows (32-bit): [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/one_agent/Reacher_Windows_x86.zip)
        - Windows (64-bit): [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/one_agent/Reacher_Windows_x86_64.zip)

    - **_Version 2: Twenty (20) Agents_**
        - Linux: [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/Reacher_Linux.zip)
        - Mac OSX: [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/Reacher.app.zip)
        - Windows (32-bit): [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/Reacher_Windows_x86.zip)
        - Windows (64-bit): [click here](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/Reacher_Windows_x86_64.zip)
    
    (_For Windows users_) Check out [this link](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/827218/how-to-determine-whether-a-computer-is-running-a-32-bit-version-or-64) if you need help with determining if your computer is running a 32-bit version or 64-bit version of the Windows operating system.

    (_For AWS_) If you'd like to train the agent on AWS (and have not [enabled a virtual screen](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/master/docs/Training-on-Amazon-Web-Service.md)), then please use [this link](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/one_agent/Reacher_Linux_NoVis.zip) (version 1) or [this link](https://s3-us-west-1.amazonaws.com/udacity-drlnd/P2/Reacher/Reacher_Linux_NoVis.zip) (version 2) to obtain the "headless" version of the environment.  You will **not** be able to watch the agent without enabling a virtual screen, but you will be able to train the agent.  (_To watch the agent, you should follow the instructions to [enable a virtual screen](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/ml-agents/blob/master/docs/Training-on-Amazon-Web-Service.md), and then download the environment for the **Linux** operating system above._)

2. Place the file in the DRLND GitHub repository, in the `p2_continuous-control/` folder, and unzip (or decompress) the file. 

### Instructions
#### Dependencies

1. Download the Twenty Agents version of the environment and put it into the root folder of the repository
2. Install pip packages from `requirments.txt`

#### Training 
In order to train the agent, please run ```trainAgent.py```. This will
1. Setup the unity environment
2. Setup the agent with used hyperparameters
3. Train the agent and show the trained rewards
4. Save the best model weights in model/model.pth

#### Inference
In order to run the already trained agent, please run ```runAgent.py```
